ah still no new releases they all got
pushed back well without anything new to
talk about I need an idea for a theory
and you know what that means the
triumphant return of the wheel Oh gaming
wheel of gaming spin spin spin give me a
game that's a total win ah very funny
wheel let's try this again
we love gaming that wasn't right give me
a topic that's super tight mmm that's
gonna be a yikes for me here chief do it
one more time
we love gaming clutter you smokin it's
time for you to stop your joking oh come
on is this thing broken I see the
problem here
just a slight misalignment issue wow it
landed on a Mario Theory thanks we love
gaming
[Music]
[Applause]
hello Internet welcome to game theory
where I'd like to start today's episode
off by telling you that there is finally
some new theory we're available right
now in our merch store in the merch
shelf right below this video and back by
popular demand is drumroll please
the game theory switch case this time in
a holographic design it is color if ik
and speaking of holographics we also
have this incredible lightweight zip-up
mesh hoodie jacket with holographic game
theory print on it it's soft its
waterproof it is perfect for going
outside this spring or summer or if you
know just walking around you're really
cold house if you don't like fully
zipped up jackets we also have this
lightweight half zip hoodie sporting the
game theory green and a little secret
inside it folds up into itself so you
can take some waterproof theorists pride
action with you whenever you're on the
go it's cold I'm so much warmer and it's
waterproof too we've got new hats
we've got a new tie-dye shirt the last
thing I'll mention is our game theory
wallets made with sustainable animal
friendly pleather
it has embossed patterns a full metal
game theory logo on the front with
plenty of slots inside of it for your
various cards and reminder that
everything is all just a theory on the
inside it just makes me really happy the
rainbows the wallet the functionality I
just wanted designs that weren't so
serious right now
you know stuff that would make us a
little bit happier and on that note I
wanted to call out here that I'm not
gonna do that youtuber thing where we
create false scarcity and fake you out
and make you think that things are sold
out and you feel really bad when you
don't get an item that you were excited
for and then all miraculously we made
more go figure good thing that you
waited around you better get it before
it's out like I don't know it's just
mean and it's playing psychological
games with you and right now I don't
think anyone needs anything that's gonna
make them feel bad right so this whole
collection is made on pre-order
basically under the idea that if you
want it you're gonna get it merch from
your favorite creators should make you
feel happy it shouldn't be some sort of
contest or competition or something that
stresses you out there's already enough
stress out there in the world these days
so if you're excited about it we're
excited to make it for you everything
you need is below this video
merch shelf top line in the description
and as a final note thank you guys so
much for supporting stuff like this at a
time like this when ad revenue is
really really really low you guys going
out and supporting merch makes a huge
huge difference to all of us working on
this channel so thank you stay safe and
with that it's time to talk about
everyone's favorite D tier smash fighter
Yoshi perhaps the single most
inconsistent character in the Mario
canon I mean Mario always the hero in
red Luigi
always the scaredy-cat and green toad
always obnoxious but Yoshi I mean he is
all over the place
sometimes he has a saddle other times
that saddle is actually a shell
sometimes he can talk other times he
just says his own name like a reject
Pokemon three fingers four fingers wool
fingers it is everywhere heck we even be
sure his name is Yoshi because guess
what in 1995 it was translated as yah
see yah see I mean the games tell us
that he's meant to be a dinosaur but is
he even that so today I wanted to answer
the question what the heck is a Yoshi
exactly we're looking at their behavior
and their biology to determine exactly
what they are or they dinosaurs and if
so what sort of dinosaur are they and
along the way we may just come up with
the solution for how he became the
long-tongued
egg pooping Green Machine of death that
we all know and love who knows well the
answer to that one is is me I know and
the answer is yeah we're gonna answer
the who's behind the end of this episode
so stay tuned it's it's a good one for
the anti Nintendo viewers out there
while you guys come in from the fan and
minecraft fandoms Yoshi was introduced
in Super Mario World back in 1990 and
has been in 101 games since that time
ranging from the NES all the way to the
most recent Mario and Sonic at the
Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 which come to
think of it as kind of a weird piece of
history at this point the Olympics are
pushed back to next year which means
that the only official olympic games of
2020 are gonna be a competition between
two fictional game universes wonder if
they're gonna re-release that for next
year anyway according to Nintendo
official magazine the inspiration for
Yoshi began with a little lizard
creature named Tama Gong star of the
1984 game devil world you know that
beloved Nintendo franchise we descend
down into each double hockey sticks and
use crosses to defeat the devil wearing
his red
speedo yep that green little dinosaur
right there carrying the Bible that is
our earliest version of Yoshi so from
that holy beginning of being humanity
savior Yoshi kind of downgraded and in
his first official appearance in Super
Mario World he basically functioned as
little more than a cute mount for
swallowing goombahs and being sacrificed
mercilessly into lava pits but he
quickly became a fan favorite earning
spin-off titles and even a starting
position in the smash franchise he's
iconic for inhaling just about anything
and turning him instantly into an egg
including babies yep he can even eat
baby Mario revenge and babies never
tasted so sweet so what exactly is this
baby eating reptilian well in the
original Japanese version of super mario
world Yoshi writes us a letter in the
message box just outside of his house he
signs it super dragon Yoshi supporting
the idea that Yoshi here is a dragon
instead of a dinosaur is the fact that
there are dragon coins hidden throughout
the stages in this game coins that
wouldn't you know it have Yoshi's face
on him that said those are really the
only two major instances of Yoshi being
considered a dragon in pretty much every
other media item since then he's
considered a dinosaur in Smash Brothers
64 his trophy reads quote Yoshi is the
friendly dinosaur in melee again quote
Yoshi's are gentle fleet of foot
dinosaurs end quote and going back to
that original appearance in Super Mario
World both the English and Japanese have
the setting of the game as Dinosaur Land
with Yoshi listed as a young dinosaur in
the original manuals it's also worth
noting that most if not all the enemies
in Mario games can be simplified into an
animal or plant inspiration for instance
all the other residents of Dinosaur Land
Reznor Rex and Dino Rhino all of them
have clear counterparts in IRL
prehistory Reznor da is a triceratops
though the name of Rex might make you
think that this guy is a t-rex that
Miyamoto slapped some wings on to and
called it an enemy the design is
actually riffing on the Ceratosaurus
they both have horns on their snouts
walk on two legs have teeth that hang
out of their mouths and were likely to
tone from their belly to their back
hecht Rex's height in game even matches
the real-life height of the cerrado
soros just slightly over that of a fully
grown man lastly the Dino rhinos are
pretty clearly proto Sarah
cops albeit a little bit larger with its
stocky quadropod body hornless head and
bird-like little bead so where does this
leave Yoshida it doesn't really have any
defining trades that clearly harken back
to dinosaurs that we know about off the
top of our heads so what is it exactly
well let's start by defining Yoshi's
characteristics Yoshi is also taller
than Mario at 175 centimeters
established in an earlier video with
smooth green skin along his back in a
white underbelly red spikes along the
spine that lead to a shell which was
originally a saddle so I'm gonna take
that one with a grain of salt speaking
of eggs
Yoshi's are born from a hardshell egg as
shown in its hatching animation in Super
Mario World for the SNES note egg
cracking and it's chipping away its head
is very large especially around the nose
he has a thick stocky tail and the
species can be found in all sorts of
climates throughout the Mushroom Kingdom
from scorching deserts to freezing
tundra and last but certainly not least
we have Yoshi's long prehensile tongue
that it uses to snatch up Bowser's
underlings so at that Arsenal of
information we can quickly and
systematically narrow down what Yoshi is
using drum roll please
ooh that's to drumrolls in the same
episode very special I should probably
get to what I'm about to reveal which I
guarantee is gonna be underwhelming
cladistics the classification of animals
and plants according to the
characteristics they have in common come
on guys that is totally worth a drumroll
you remember cladistics from school
right domain kingdom phylum class order
family genus species and all that bolt
if you've forgotten it or you never
learned it because no one's learning
from any of the online classes that are
going on right now here's the mnemonic
device that you won't forget drunken
kangaroos punch children on family game
shows or you know what there's always
the classic dear King Philip came over
for great sausage think you can replace
that with the appropriate word wink-wink
nudge-nudge
anyway what all this is gonna do is let
us narrow down what Yoshi is so he can
put him alongside the appropriate
similar creature just to cover our bases
I'm gonna start with the highest level
of classification Yoshi is eukaryotic
meaning that its cells have a membrane
bound nucleus placing it under the
domain of Eukarya its kingdom is
Animalia since it's a multicellular
animal and it must be in the phylum
Chordata because Yoshi has a backbone
now those are three super broad
classifications but in those three quick
steps we've already eliminated about 97%
of all animals on earth that really puts
things in perspective doesn't it
philosophy aside and phylogeny back on
the table we now get into the segments
of classification that are based on
physical traits and characteristics we
established before that Yoshi is a
dinosaur so that puts him in the class
of sauropsida the classification where
you find reptiles and birds from here
things start to get a bit dicey though
there are two orders that we can put
Yoshi in to soar its Kea or or nits Kea
meaning lizard hipped or bird hip
respectively and as you can imagine this
is based off the structure of the
animals pelvis really the difference
boils down to the placement of the pubis
the pubis not this bone right here the
pubis bone but how do we possibly check
out yoshi's pubis placement well when it
comes time to look at the skeletons of
fictional video game creatures there's
only one place to turn to Super Smash
Brothers 64 and Pikachu's shocked
ability oh oh that's horrific
Yoshi not only doesn't have a pubis he
literally doesn't have a pelvis is
completely comprised of ribs apparently
just a big old wall
getting ribcage so okay maybe Nintendo
hasn't really given us an official
accurate read on the state of Yoshi's
skeletal system so we're gonna need to
tackle this problem a different way the
order or knits Kia is comprised of the
ornithopods margin Assefa Lia and theory
of flora now don't worry if those words
mean nothing to you I'm barely holding
their pronunciations together myself I
literally just looked up how to
pronounce them all just so I didn't
butcher them completely I'm just gonna
simplify them for you ornithopods are
dinosaurs that primarily walked on two
legs eight plans and have a little beak
like the Iguanodon or the dry asaurus
margin assembly are pretty much the
dinosaurs with funny-looking skulls the
bony frills on the back of their head
like a triceratops or that little ring
that you see on those ramming guys that
always appear in the Jurassic Park
movies those guys by the way are called
a pachycephalosaurus and they always
make me think that they have a bald spot
on the top of their head right like welp
someone forgot to put their toupee on
and lastly there are the thyri offerings
which means shield bearers these are the
guys with body armor like the
ankylosaurus and the Stegosaurus and
looking across all three of these
categories Yoshi doesn't fit any of them
he doesn't have a beak or any sort of
weird skull extensions outside of that
enormous nose of his and he doesn't have
any sort of scaly body armor so by
process of elimination he's pretty
solidly in the Souris Gaea order which
itself is broken down into two main sub
orders sauropods the massive long necked
dinosaurs like the brontosaurus
definitely not Yoshi and the theropods
carnivorous bipedal dinosaurs like the
t-rex and the Allosaurus known for
walking fast on their two legs eating
meat and using grasping clawed fingers
don't think I need to really discuss
this any further
Yoshi's order is sorry skia and his sub
order is therap oda hands down what also
helps support this idea is that
Nintendo's official name for the Yoshi
dinosaur his scientific name is T
yoshisaur munchakoopas what does that T
stand for no one really knows Nintendo's
never come out and said it but I'm gonna
say it right here I think that the T
actually stands for theropod theropod uh
Yoshi's or munch a coupon it actually
works it would be his official
scientific name so let's recap here
kingdom Animalia phylum Chordata class
or upsetting order Sora skia sub ordered
theropod ah we are
almost there now all we need is his
genus and a species so up until now
we've been focused on the little things
right Yoshi sells his hips its pubis now
we just need to look at the big picture
common traits across every Yoshi include
that huge honker on his face the frills
down his back that are always red no
matter what his skin color a height
roughly the size of an adult man and
boots so all we really need to identify
Yoshi is to find an IRL dinosaur in the
theropod a sub order with red spines of
big nodes a height around 175
centimeters and a set of permanent
footwear and after scouring the entire
encyclopedia of dinosaurs I think I have
it Yoshi's closest dinosaur relative is
none other than can I get a drumroll
please
okay three drum rolls in the same
episode
I'm just overusing and editing trope for
dramatic purposes and also comedic
effect but seriously this is getting
kind of obnoxious so let me just say
it's the mono lava soros a medium-sized
bipedal carnivore that lived in western
China during the Jurassic period it's
known for the single crest on its skull
giving the front of its face a rounder
more bulbous feel just like our little
Yoshi it's thought that the crest might
have intensified its mighty roar mighty
roar indeed height wise they're a
perfect fit with the model officers
standing almost exactly at a meter in
three-quarters in height which is
exactly where Yoshi sits it was also
known to be very communal hunting in
packs much like we see with the Yoshi's
living together and building a society
together the area where Monell office
source was found also showed signs of
ancient water leading researchers to
believe that these dinosaurs lived near
the shores of lakes and oceans which
again look at where Yoshi's houses in
Super Mario World right on the water
line and the fact that they have a whole
island of Yoshi's in the next game just
want to be clear here I'm not saying
Yoshi is a Monell office or Asst but
based off all the evidence as it's been
presented it's extremely likely to be a
distant relative of the model office
horas which brings me to the biggest
problem in all of this right what about
the multi-coloured skin the long tongue
the whole omnivore thing and the
egg-laying well I think all of this
actually has an explanation under the
model office Soros angle Yoshi
Island is surrounded by water right so
let's assume some model office or psa's
model office or I got stranded on that
Island and kind of like Darwin's finches
only the model office sources that had
the right adaptations are actually able
to survive on that island and survival
means food so how are those model office
sources gonna find themselves some food
well let's look at what's on the menu as
we see in Super Mario World to Yoshi's
Island there aren't a lot of things to
eat on that island the game is mostly
filled with koopa troopas the shells of
which can't be swallowed Piranha Plants
tap taps and lava blogs which Yoshi
can't eat and shy guys which may or may
not be native to the island in the first
place in short the actual edible meat on
the island is relatively sparse meaning
that the monolith asaurus a carnivorous
dinosaur would have to start broadening
out its eating habits to the local fruit
the local fish but the monolith asaurus
has small arms they can't be climbing
trees to get the fruits that we see
growing on them in Yoshi's Island and
like mangos and bananas so what can it
do well it can either develop a long
neck or better yet a long tongue that
allows it to get both fruit and the fast
flying Goonies and Gus T's of the island
and then what about fish well there's
plenty of cheep cheeps in the ocean but
model office sources don't really swim
well we better start developing smooth
skin which will serve it better in an
environment where it needs to move
through the water
notice that Yoshi's aren't particularly
good at swimming they can when they need
to but it's not just their natural thing
that is adaptation at its finest and
finally what about their coloration why
do they come in so many different colors
like bright reds and vibrant greens but
also faded blues and browns again it's
adaptation super mario world 2 shows us
just how colorful Yoshi's Island is with
bright red flowers big green jungle
plants but also massive systems of grey
blue caves and brown mountains for
Yoshi's needing food wherever they can
get it on this island they evolved to
feature a huge range of colors in order
to survive remember their communal
they're working together in a lot of
cases to pool their food together and
thus we have how a carnivorous bipedal
big-nosed monolith asaurus with over
generations slowly turn into the neon
coal
a numerous long-tongued yoshisaur
munchakoopas which leads us finally to
the biggest question of all the eggs how
is every Yoshi
able to lay eggs for that I point you
all in the direction of another reptile
the New Mexican whiptail a species of
lizard that is all female and still
reproduces that's right zero males
suck on that Bechtel test through a form
of asexual reproduction called
parthenogenesis this lizard is able to
double the number of chromosomes and
their reproductive cells twice a forced
cell division begins giving their eggs
the right number of chromosomes I mean
they're certainly not doing it at the
rate Yoshi's are pooping out eggs no
maybe we chalk that one up too the
miracles of nature so could it be that
every Yoshi is just a female descendant
of a monolith asaurus let's just put it
this way it's all just a theory game
theory thanks for watching and remember
the holographic switch-case the
holographic jacket the fold up jacket
the wallet the tie day hoodies the hats
all of it are available right now just
below this video click there to order
yours today
no false rush except for that you need
to place an order for us to make it for
you in a reasonable amount of time no
mad scramble just some products made to
keep you warm help you feel cool just
bring us all a little bit of happiness
I'll see you all next week
[Music]
you